README.markdown, before:

Delphi REST Client API
======================

A Delphi REST client API to consume REST services written in any programming language.

The API was tested in Delphi 7, XE, XE2, XE3, XE4 and XE7. It is also compatible with Mac OSX and iOS.

## Connection Layer

There are a IHttpConnection interface to abstract the real Http conection. This interface currently have two implementations, using  [Indy 10](http://www.indyproject.org/index.en.aspx), [WinHTTP](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa382925.aspx) and [WinInet](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa383630.aspx).

Indy 9 does not handles HTTP response codes correctly, then if you are using Delphi 7, you must update your indy library to version 10 or use WinHttp (recommended). To disable indy support comment the compiler directive ``{.$DEFINE USE_INDY}`` in ``DelphiRest.inc`` file.

## Serialization/Desserialization

The objects are transmitted in JSON format. To function properly, the object must be declared as follows, with public fields.

```delphi
TPerson = class(TObject)
public
  (* Reflect the server side object field names, for Java must be case-sensitive *)
  id: Integer;
  name: String;
  email: String;

  (* Static constructor *)
  class function NewFrom(Id: Integer; Name, EMail: String): TPerson;
end;
```

See more details about serialization here: [Serialization](https://github.com/fabriciocolombo/delphi-rest-client-api/wiki/Serialization)

## Samples

Note that all code below assume you have installed the component in your IDE and dropped the RestClient component on a form or data module, but of course you can also create the component directly in your code.

- **GET**

```delphi
var
  vList : TList<TPerson>;
begin
  vList := RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/persons')
                     .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
                     .Get<TList<TPerson>>();
```

- **GET ONE**

```delphi
var
  vPerson : TPerson;
begin
  vPerson := RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/person/1')
                 .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
                 .Get<TPerson>();
```

- **POST**

```delphi
var
  vPerson : TPerson;
begin
  vPerson := TPerson.NewFrom(123, 'Fabricio', 'fabricio.colombo.mva@gmail.com');
  RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/person')
            .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .ContentType(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .Post<TPerson>(vPerson);
```

- **PUT**

```delphi
var
  vPerson : TPerson;
begin
  vPerson := //Load person
  vPerson.Email := 'new@email.com';
  RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/person')
            .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .ContentType(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .Put<TPerson>(vPerson);
```

- **DELETE**

```delphi
var
  vPerson : TPerson;
begin
  vPerson := //Load person
  RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/person')
            .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .ContentType(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .Delete(vPerson);
```

- **GET AS DATASET**

The fields need be predefined.

```delphi
var
  vDataSet: TClientDataSet;
begin
  vDataSet := TClientDataSet.Create(nil);
  try
    TDataSetUtils.CreateField(vDataSet, ftInteger, 'id');
    TDataSetUtils.CreateField(vDataSet, ftString, 'name', 100);
    TDataSetUtils.CreateField(vDataSet, ftString, 'email', 100);
    vDataSet.CreateDataSet;

   RestClient.Resource(CONTEXT_PATH + 'persons')
              .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
              .GetAsDataSet(vDataSet);
  finally
    vDataSet.Free;
  end;
```

 - **GET AS DYNAMIC DATASET**

The fields are created dynamically according to the returned content.

```delphi
var
  vDataSet: TDataSet;
begin
  vDataSet := RestClient.Resource(CONTEXT_PATH + 'persons')
                        .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
                        .GetAsDataSet();
  try
    //Do something
  finally
    vDataSet.Free;
  end;
```

## Authentication

RestClient supports HTTP Basic authentication. You can set credentials using the `SetCredentials` method before making the first request:

```delphi
RestClient.SetCredentials('username', 'password');
```

You can set it once and it will be used for every request.

## Self-signed certificates

To skip certificate validation set `VerifyCert` to false.

```delphi
RestClient.VerifyCert := false;
```

> **Indy note:** Certificate validation is not yet supported with `hctIndy`.
> Certificates will not be validated!

## Error events

### Retry modes
  
  * hrmRaise (default)   
    Raises an exception after the event.
  * hrmIgnore   
    Ignore the error. No exception will be raised after the event.
  * hrmRetry   
    Retries the request.

### THTTPErrorEvent

Triggered for all status codes equal or above 400.

The following example will ignore the status code 404.
This will result in an empty response (nil for objects).
You'll have to check if your objects has been assigned after every request. 

`AHTTPError.ErrorMessage` contains the content of the response.
You can deserialize this to display your own error message (see `RestJsonUtils.TJsonUtil`).

```delphi
restclient := TRestClient.Create(self); 
restclient.ConnectionType := hctWinINet;
restclient.OnError := RestError;

procedure Tdm.RestError(ARestClient: TRestClient; AResource: restclient.TResource;
  AMethod: TRequestMethod; AHTTPError: EHTTPError;
  var ARetryMode: THTTPRetryMode);
begin
  ARetryMode := hrmRaise;
  if AHTTPError.ErrorCode = 404 then
    ARetryMode := hrmIgnore;
end;
```

### THTTPConnectionLostEvent
The following example will retry the request forever.
If you want it to only retry for at limited time, you'll have to
implement that counter your self.

```delphi
restclient := TRestClient.Create(self); 
restclient.ConnectionType := hctWinINet;
restclient.OnConnectionLost := RestConnectionLost;

procedure Tdm.RestConnectionLost(AException: Exception; var ARetryMode: THTTPRetryMode);
begin
  ARetryMode := hrmRetry;
  sleep(1000);
end;
```

## Java Rest Server

The java project is only for test purpose and has built using [Maven](http://maven.apache.org) and [Jersey](http://jersey.java.net), so it's needed have installed the JRE 6+ (Java Runtime Environment) and Maven 2 to build and run the application. The Maven bin directory must be included in Windows Path environment variable.

After install Java and Maven just run 'start-java-server.bat' to start the application and 'stop-java-server.bat' to shut down them.

When 'start-java-server.bat' is first run maven dependencies will be downloaded, and it may take a while.

## License
The Delphi REST client API is released under version 2.0 of the [Apache License][].

[Apache License]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Commit message:

Update README with information about async request

README.markdown, after:

Delphi REST Client API
======================

A Delphi REST client API to consume REST services written in any programming language.

The API was tested in Delphi 7, XE, XE2, XE3, XE4 and XE7. It is also compatible with Mac OSX and iOS.

## Connection Layer

There are a IHttpConnection interface to abstract the real Http conection. This interface currently have two implementations, using  [Indy 10](http://www.indyproject.org/index.en.aspx), [WinHTTP](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa382925.aspx) and [WinInet](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa383630.aspx).

Indy 9 does not handles HTTP response codes correctly, then if you are using Delphi 7, you must update your indy library to version 10 or use WinHttp (recommended). To disable indy support comment the compiler directive ``{.$DEFINE USE_INDY}`` in ``DelphiRest.inc`` file.

## Serialization/Desserialization

The objects are transmitted in JSON format. To function properly, the object must be declared as follows, with public fields.

```delphi
TPerson = class(TObject)
public
  (* Reflect the server side object field names, for Java must be case-sensitive *)
  id: Integer;
  name: String;
  email: String;

  (* Static constructor *)
  class function NewFrom(Id: Integer; Name, EMail: String): TPerson;
end;
```

See more details about serialization here: [Serialization](https://github.com/fabriciocolombo/delphi-rest-client-api/wiki/Serialization)

## Samples

Note that all code below assume you have installed the component in your IDE and dropped the RestClient component on a form or data module, but of course you can also create the component directly in your code.

- **GET**

```delphi
var
  vList : TList<TPerson>;
begin
  vList := RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/persons')
                     .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
                     .Get<TList<TPerson>>();
```

- **GET ONE**

```delphi
var
  vPerson : TPerson;
begin
  vPerson := RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/person/1')
                 .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
                 .Get<TPerson>();
```

- **POST**

```delphi
var
  vPerson : TPerson;
begin
  vPerson := TPerson.NewFrom(123, 'Fabricio', 'fabricio.colombo.mva@gmail.com');
  RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/person')
            .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .ContentType(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .Post<TPerson>(vPerson);
```

- **PUT**

```delphi
var
  vPerson : TPerson;
begin
  vPerson := //Load person
  vPerson.Email := 'new@email.com';
  RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/person')
            .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .ContentType(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .Put<TPerson>(vPerson);
```

- **DELETE**

```delphi
var
  vPerson : TPerson;
begin
  vPerson := //Load person
  RestClient.Resource('http://localhost:8080/java-rest-server/rest/person')
            .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .ContentType(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
            .Delete(vPerson);
```

- **GET AS DATASET**

The fields need be predefined.

```delphi
var
  vDataSet: TClientDataSet;
begin
  vDataSet := TClientDataSet.Create(nil);
  try
    TDataSetUtils.CreateField(vDataSet, ftInteger, 'id');
    TDataSetUtils.CreateField(vDataSet, ftString, 'name', 100);
    TDataSetUtils.CreateField(vDataSet, ftString, 'email', 100);
    vDataSet.CreateDataSet;

   RestClient.Resource(CONTEXT_PATH + 'persons')
              .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
              .GetAsDataSet(vDataSet);
  finally
    vDataSet.Free;
  end;
```

 - **GET AS DYNAMIC DATASET**

The fields are created dynamically according to the returned content.

```delphi
var
  vDataSet: TDataSet;
begin
  vDataSet := RestClient.Resource(CONTEXT_PATH + 'persons')
                        .Accept(RestUtils.MediaType_Json)
                        .GetAsDataSet();
  try
    //Do something
  finally
    vDataSet.Free;
  end;
```

- **ASYNC REQUESTS**

```Delphi
  //Implement OnAsyncRequestProcess event to allow cancelling a request or update the UI
  RestClient.OnAsyncRequestProcess :=
    procedure(var Cancel: Boolean)
    begin
      Cancel := True; // Set cancel to true to abort the request
    end;

// This will raise an EAbort if the request is canceled 
 RestClient.Resource(CONTEXT_PATH + 'async')
            .Accept('text/plain')
            .Async
            .GET();
```

> **NOTE:** Async request is only supported for `WinHTTP`.
> Any thought about how to implement this feature for `Indy` and `WinInet` are welcome.

## Authentication

RestClient supports HTTP Basic authentication. You can set credentials using the `SetCredentials` method before making the first request:

```delphi
RestClient.SetCredentials('username', 'password');
```

You can set it once and it will be used for every request.

## Self-signed certificates

To skip certificate validation set `VerifyCert` to false.

```delphi
RestClient.VerifyCert := false;
```

> **Indy note:** Certificate validation is not yet supported with `Indy`.
> Certificates will not be validated!
> Any thought about how to implement this feature for `Indy` are welcome.

## Error events

### Retry modes
  
  * hrmRaise (default)   
    Raises an exception after the event.
  * hrmIgnore   
    Ignore the error. No exception will be raised after the event.
  * hrmRetry   
    Retries the request.

### THTTPErrorEvent

Triggered for all status codes equal or above 400.

The following example will ignore the status code 404.
This will result in an empty response (nil for objects).
You'll have to check if your objects has been assigned after every request. 

`AHTTPError.ErrorMessage` contains the content of the response.
You can deserialize this to display your own error message (see `RestJsonUtils.TJsonUtil`).

```delphi
restclient := TRestClient.Create(self); 
restclient.ConnectionType := hctWinINet;
restclient.OnError := RestError;

procedure Tdm.RestError(ARestClient: TRestClient; AResource: restclient.TResource;
  AMethod: TRequestMethod; AHTTPError: EHTTPError;
  var ARetryMode: THTTPRetryMode);
begin
  ARetryMode := hrmRaise;
  if AHTTPError.ErrorCode = 404 then
    ARetryMode := hrmIgnore;
end;
```

### THTTPConnectionLostEvent
The following example will retry the request forever.
If you want it to only retry for at limited time, you'll have to
implement that counter your self.

```delphi
restclient := TRestClient.Create(self); 
restclient.ConnectionType := hctWinINet;
restclient.OnConnectionLost := RestConnectionLost;

procedure Tdm.RestConnectionLost(AException: Exception; var ARetryMode: THTTPRetryMode);
begin
  ARetryMode := hrmRetry;
  sleep(1000);
end;
```

## Java Rest Server

The java project is only for test purpose and has built using [Maven](http://maven.apache.org) and [Jersey](http://jersey.java.net), so it's needed have installed the JRE 6+ (Java Runtime Environment) and Maven 2 to build and run the application. The Maven bin directory must be included in Windows Path environment variable.

After install Java and Maven just run 'start-java-server.bat' to start the application and 'stop-java-server.bat' to shut down them.

When 'start-java-server.bat' is first run maven dependencies will be downloaded, and it may take a while.

## License
The Delphi REST client API is released under version 2.0 of the [Apache License][].

[Apache License]: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
